Vault doc (#1672)
solo-io/gloo-mesh: docs/content/guides/security/vault.md

---
title: Vault PKI
menuTitle: Vault PKI
description: Guide to using vault with gloo-mesh to secure istio traffic
weight: 30
---

{{% notice note %}} Gloo Mesh Enterprise is required for this feature. {{% /notice %}}

> [Vault](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault) is a popular open source secret management tool, one of it's many use cases is PKI (Private Key Infrastructure). Vault allows for easy and secure storage of our private keys, as well as generation of new leaf/intermediary certificates. This guide will explore using vault as an intermediate CA in conjunction with Gloo Mesh.

Reviewer: Is Vault being used as the intermediate CA for signing all istio workloads?...or is it just providing the intermediate CA _certs_ for the Istio CA to use in each cluster?

> In addition to using Vault as the intermediate CA, this guide will also explore the added security benefits of using Gloo Mesh Enterprise + Vault. Gloo Mesh Enterprise integration with vault uses a new component which we call the `istiod-agent`. This agent runs as a `sidecar` to the `istiod` pod, and communicates with Vault to request private keys and sign certificates. This allows gloo-mesh to load the private key directly into the pod filesystem, thereby allowing for an added layer of security by not saving the key to `etcd` (or any permanent storage). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to using Vault as the intermediate CA, this guide will also explore the added security benefits of using Gloo Mesh Enterprise + Vault. The Gloo Mesh Enterprise integration with Vault uses the `istiod-agent`, which runs as a `sidecar` to the `istiod` pod, and communicates with Vault to request private keys and sign certificates. This allows Gloo Mesh to load the private key directly into the pod filesystem, thereby allowing for an added layer of security by not saving the key to `etcd` (or any permanent storage). 
```

## Before you begin

This guide assumes the following:

  * Gloo Mesh Enterprise is [installed in relay mode and running on the `cluster-1`]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/setup/install-gloo-mesh" %}})
  * `gloo-mesh` is the installation namespace for Gloo Mesh
  * `enterprise-networking` is deployed on `cluster-1` in the `gloo-mesh` namespace and exposes its gRPC server on port 9900
  * `enterprise-agent` is deployed on both clusters and exposes its gRPC server on port 9977
  * Both `cluster-1` and `cluster-2` are [registered with Gloo Mesh]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#two-registered-clusters" %}})
  * Istio is [installed on both clusters]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/installing_istio" %}}) clusters
  * `istio-system` is the root namespace for both Istio deployments
  * The `bookinfo` app is [installed into the two clusters]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/#bookinfo-deployed-on-two-clusters" %}}) under the `bookinfo` namespace
  * the following environment variables are set:
```shell
CONTEXT_1="cluster_1's_context"
CONTEXT_2="cluster_2's_context"
```

## Installing Vault

> {{% notice note %}} Installing Vault is an optional step. An existing Vault deployment may be used if you or your organization already has one. {{% /notice %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% notice note %}} Installing Vault is an optional step. An existing Vault deployment may be used if you already have access to one. {{% /notice %}}
```

    selectors:
    - {}
  meshes:
  - name: istiod-istio-system-cluster-1
    namespace: gloo-mesh
  - name: istiod-istio-system-cluster-2
    namespace: gloo-mesh
{{< /highlight >}}

Run the following command to apply this `VirtualMesh` to the mgmt-cluster.
```shell
cat << EOF | kubectl apply --context=${CONTEXT_1} -f -
apiVersion: networking.mesh.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualMesh
metadata:
  name: virtual-mesh
  namespace: gloo-mesh
spec:
  mtlsConfig:
    autoRestartPods: true
    shared:
      intermediateCertificateAuthority:
        vault:
          # Vault path to the CA endpoint
          caPath: "pki/root/sign-intermediate"
          # Vault path to the CSR endpoint
          csrPath: "pki_int/intermediate/generate/exported"
          # Vault server endpoint
          server: "http://vault.vault:8200"
          # Auth mechanism to use
          kubernetesAuth:
            role: "gen-int-ca-istio"
  federation:
    # federate all Destinations to all external meshes
    selectors:
    - {}
  meshes:
  - name: istiod-istio-system-cluster-1
    namespace: gloo-mesh
  - name: istiod-istio-system-cluster-2
    namespace: gloo-mesh
EOF
```

## Updating RBAC

> In order for the new istio-agent sidecar we are going to install in the next step to work, we will need to give it the necessary RBAC permissions. These include reading and modifying gloo-mesh resources. To do this we are going to update our `enterprise-agent` helm release on both clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order for the new istio-agent sidecar we are going to install in the next step to work, we will need to give it the necessary RBAC permissions. These include reading and modifying Gloo Mesh resources. To do this we are going to update our `enterprise-agent` helm release on both clusters.
```

> If you have the `values` file for each agent on your local machine, then you should insert the following value. Otherwise run the following to get the currently deployed values.

Reviewer 2: > If you have the `values` file for each agent on your local machine, then you should insert the following value.

Can you clarify what this means?

												"valueFrom": {
													"fieldRef": {
															"apiVersion": "v1",
															"fieldPath": "metadata.name"
													}
												}
										},
										{
												"name": "POD_NAMESPACE",
												"valueFrom": {
													"fieldRef": {
															"apiVersion": "v1",
															"fieldPath": "metadata.namespace"
													}
												}
										},
										{
												"name": "SERVICE_ACCOUNT",
												"valueFrom": {
													"fieldRef": {
															"apiVersion": "v1",
															"fieldPath": "spec.serviceAccountName"
													}
												}
										}
									],
									"volumeMounts": [
										{
												"mountPath": "/etc/cacerts",
												"name": "cacerts"
										}
									],
									"imagePullPolicy": "IfNotPresent",
									"image": "gcr.io/gloo-mesh/istiod-agent:$MGMT_PLANE_VERSION",
									"name": "istiod-agent"
							}
						],
						"volumes": [
							{
									"name": "cacerts",
									"secret": null,
									"emptyDir": {
										"medium": "Memory"
									}
							}
						]
				}
			}
	}
}'
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Final Steps

> Now that istio has been patched with the gloo-mesh istiod-agent sidecar, we can go ahead and verify that all of our traffic is being secured using the root-ca we generated for vault in the previous steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that Istio has been patched with the Gloo Mesh `istiod-agent` sidecar, we can verify that all of our traffic is being secured using the root CA we generated for Vault in the previous steps.
```

> The easiest way to do this will be to check the ca cert which istio propogates for initial TLS connection. This command will check the propogated root-cert against the local cert which we supplied to vault in an earlier step. If Vault was not setup using the earlier part of the tutorial, the Vault root-cert should instead be fetched and saved to the file `root-cert.pem` in the current directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to do this will be to check `root-cert.pem` in the`istio-ca-root-cert` config map which Istio propagates for initial TLS connection. This command will check the propagated root-cert against the local cert which we supplied to vault in an earlier step. If Vault was not setup using the earlier part of the tutorial, the Vault root-cert should instead be fetched and saved to the file `root-cert.pem` in the current directory.
```
